# Mandelbrot client

Application used together with [Mandelbrot server][SERVER] to generate an image of the [Mandelbrot set][WIKI_MS].

## Building

This project uses [Apache Maven][MVN] as a build tool witch needs to be installed on the build system in
order to build the application.

Once Maven is installed you can build the project by running the following command in a terminal/shell in
the top-level directory of this project (the same directory that contains the pom.xml file). This generates
a executable jar file located in the target directory.

```
mvn package
```

## Running

After building the target directory will contain a executable jar generated by the build system. The application
is intended to be run from the command line and requires several command line arguments as demonstrated below.

```
java -jar MandelbrotClient.jar <realMin> <realMax> <imagMin> <imagMax> <nMaxIterations> <width> <height> <divisions> <serverAppURI> <output>
```

For example:

```
java -jar MandelbrotClient.jar -2 1 -1.5 1.5 1024 10000 10000 4 http://localhost:8080/MandelbrotServer/rest/ mandebrot.png 
```

Some notes:
- Note the order of the coordinates for limiting the portion of the set it is:
	&lt;realMin&gt; &lt;realMax&gt; &lt;imagMin&gt; &lt;imagMax&gt;
- The server application URI should include the full path to the rest application including '/rest/' at the end.
- The trailing / of the URI is important, removing that and things will not work.
- The output file format is PNG (Portable Network Graphics)

## Rationale

When I designed this client application it was meant to contrast the server application that used a large available
framework of Java EE and JAX-RS by only using wary low-level API:s. This to better demonstrate my skills in
using even low-level API:s and understanding and be able to implement more complicated things such as a HTTP
protocol client.

I mostly succeeded in that goal but the client code still "has a few sharp corners". The API between the two
components: the Main and the HttpClient classes is not the best and some improvements could be had. I haven't
tested the code for behaviour during many error conditions and I can imagine that a few error conditions will
give strange error messages or simply not work as intended.

That said I still think this client is a good piece of software and that it dose to a large extent demonstrated the skills
I wanted it to. 

[SERVER]: https://github.com/riccetn/MandelbrotServer
[WIKI_MS]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mandelbrot_set
[MVN]: https://maven.apache.org/
